LASEM, CENTRAL JAVA, 1943
TIO MEI HWA AND BHANU
May you be together all your lives.
May your love last a thousand years.
May you be blessed with many children.
May you live long.
Do you want me to teach you how to smile?
I'm making you look this pretty
for you to smile,
not for you to frown.
I'm sure your parents would be happy.
They might be watching you from heaven
at this very moment.
Or they may be preparing to attend
your "Sangjit" (betrothal rituals).
How romantic.
Let me see.
Here, develop it yourself, okay?
I'll just go to a film shop.
You're starting to get on my nerves.
Do you have to act like an artist?
The photos have to be aesthetic,
you have to use film...
Of course.
- What? You want freebies?
- I will put makeup on you.
- Get back, the camera can't fit you.
- Now.
What?
- Is everything ready?
- Just a moment.
- Hi.
- Your wife will be ready soon.
- Hi, honey.
- Let me give you a touch-up.
- Hang on, I have to work.
Your lipstick tastes like strawberry.
Delicious right? It's so sweet.
Yeah. Gosh, Salim.
- Yes. I'll wait outside.
- You ruin it.
- All good?
- You'll be charged extra for this one.
I can't believe it.
The next gift is from Salim's family,
a couple of candles
and two bottles of wine.
Each candle has
a Liong and a Hong character,
a dragon and a phoenix,
to symbolize welfare.
Tasya is everything to me,
and I have never regretted anything
from the first moment we met
through to today.
- I love you, honey.
- I love you.
But I'm well aware that we're both here
thanks to my adopted parents,
Mommy Linda and Daddy Chandra.
If Tasya didn't work for you guys,
we wouldn't have met.
Thank you, Mommy
and Daddy,
for taking care of me
since I was a little kid.
Ever since I lost my mom and dad.
So, cheers to Mommy Linda
and Daddy Chandra.
Cheers.
Daddy, try this chicken. It's your favorite.
- This is for you.
- Try this.
I'll gladly take it.
- Do you want some chicken?
- No.
- Mommy, try it. Tasya ordered it.
- I did.
I had it, no worries.
- Is it good, Arin?
- Was this menu on the food tasting?
- Really?
- This is so good.
- You're so sweet.
- I totally trust your taste.
- Who wants noodles? You?
- No, thanks, honey.
Salim, seriously.
Tasya knows the best food.
- You're too kind.
- This is so good.
I'm always happy when I eat with you,
I don't know why.
Honey.
What's wrong?
You're spacing out.
Just now,
I think I saw something.
What did you see?
I don't know. It was just a glimpse.
I have dreamt about this.
There's, like, this old house
that I've never seen before.
It's best if we don't think about it.
I was going to tell you that
during our Sangjit,
my Engkim called,
but I didn't get to pick up the phone.
- Engkim?
- "Engkim" is what you call an aunt.
- She is my father's cousin.
- You still have an aunt?
I do.
But we're not that close.
I think the last time we met,
I was still in elementary school.
She should've come to our Sangjit.
Daddy Chandra would have invited her.
Do you have any tissues?
No? Okay, I'll go and wash my hands.
Hello?
Is this Salim Tio?
That's me. Who's this?
My name is Koh Chung Chung.
I am a master in Lasem.
I'm calling to inform you
that Ci Fang Fang passed away
yesterday in Lasem.
Can you come here?
I'm sorry, what?
- Engkim Fang Fang passed away?
- Can you...
- Hello? Sorry... the call is breaking up.
- Can you...? Hello?
Hello?
Salim.
I'm sorry that I couldn't come yesterday.
Hurry and come home.
Somebody has to light the prayer stick
at the altar in the back room.
The back room?
Engkim?
Hello?
Engkim Fang Fang passed away.
Was she sick?
I don't know.
That's why I have to go there.
What about our pre-wedding photoshoot?
Do you really have to go?
We can't cancel our tickets
to Hong Kong, Salim.
Also, Febri and Arin
have a very tight schedule.
- I'm afraid that...
- I know.
But how can I not handle her funeral?
And there's going to be a whole lot
of complicated paperwork.
Who is going to handle that if I don't?
Here.
You haven't had a nosebleed in so long.
I think you should get some rest.
Let's find someone else
to arrange the funeral.
Honey.
Engkim Fang Fang is
the only blood relative I have left.
I am the only one she has left.
No matter what, I should be the one
who bids her farewell.
I'm sorry.
Isn't there something that
you can move around?
Help me out here. Just squeeze me
into your schedule or something.
I mean, I wish I could.
But I'm busy for the next three months.
Okay. I'll tell you what.
Let's do the photo shoot here.
The house here has a very classic
Chinese-looking design.
It fits... our concept.
Hello? Salim.
Hey.
He thinks he can change the location
whenever he wants.
What do you say, Tasya?
Listen.
If it's your decision to move the location
to Salim's house,
then don't worry, I'll still do my best.
Take it easy.
Salim!
AT THE VILLAGE OFFICE
WORKING ON THE PAPERWORK.
I JUST BURIED ENGKIM.
THIS IS THE ADDRESS.
NO CELL SERVICE SOON.
I LOVE YOU. SEE YOU.
The number you are calling
is out of the service area.
Is this the place?
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Salim.
Honey.
- Salim.
- What's wrong?
I'm okay.
We can't stay in this house for too long.
What's wrong, honey?
This house...
is the house in my dream.
And you were inside a coffin.
How about this?
Tomorrow morning,
we'll pray at the altar of my ancestors.
Maybe your dream is telling you that
we have to ask for their blessings
before we get married.
Okay?
Here.
Why four sticks?
Doesn't four mean...?
It means we have to pray towards
the four cardinal points
to show respect to our parents
or to our ancestors
who passed away long ago.
Excuse me.
Tasya.
It's empty.
Yeah. I wonder where everybody is?
This is crazy.
This is just like the house of Ip Man.
What?
That's so last decade.
Finally, you're here.
- Yes.
- How was the trip?
- All good?
- Tiring.
- Hi.
Bro.
What do you think?
But it's authentic, isn't it?
Yes. Authentic, that's right.
I wonder who that is.
- What do you think?
- Okay.
Koh Chung Chung?
- What's up, Koh?
- Salim.
I've come to give you
Ci Fang Fang's praying tools.
I'll accept these.
Thank you.
Are you...
going to spend the night here?
Yes.
I see.
All right then.
If you need anything,
I live nearby.
It's the little house
right next to the temple.
I'd better get going now.
- Bye, everyone.
- Bye.
- Thank you.
Look at that box.
It's so big.
Nice.
Is everyone ready? Let's do a house tour.
Okay. Give me a second.
Do you know the meaning
of any of these writings?
Hey.
Hey. What's up?
Nothing. Some water just dripped
on my head.
I'll fix it tomorrow.
Let's go.
- These are all antique ornaments.
- Beautiful, huh?
So, my family
has lived here since 1920-ish.
Come on, Tasya.
Just forget about your dream.
At times like this,
the things you should remember
are memories like
the first time you met Salim.
You used to tell me about him,
and you looked so freaking happy.
Look at you now, marrying the guy.
- Romantic, isn't it?
- Totally.
Or you're just lucky.
But I think we need to do something
about your hair.
Is that so?
Why don't we just let my hair down?
No.
Isn't the hairdo amazing?
Maybe I'll style her hair
like this tomorrow.
I have enough hairpins.
I'll choose some that are good.
That'll do.
Okay.
Geez, she is so beautiful.
Is she your relative, Salim?
If I'm not mistaken,
she was my great-grandpa's younger sister.
She was a famous singer in Central Java.
Her name was Mei Hwa.
Too bad...
- I heard she died young.
- She died?
I think they kept them here somewhere,
her record collections.
Really?
It would be so old.
It gives me goosebumps.
I think it'd be really good for dancing to.
I agree.
Where's the coffee?
This one?
Yes.
No.
I'm still saying no to being your model.
What are you talking about?
It's not that.
What is it then?
Salim beat me to it.
Gosh, Febri. Go find yourself a girlfriend.
You spend too much time fooling around.
You don't know what I'm saying.
That's not it.
I...
Used to like you too.
Yeah, right.
If you had liked me,
you should've made a move.
So,
if I had made my move,
would I still have a chance now?
Nope.
You smell like cigarettes.
Tasya.
Hang on.
What's that?
Maybe...
the cemetery of Salim's family.
Okay.
Salim.
Honey?
Why are you here?
Salim.
I don't know
why they made a special altar
for Mei Hwa like this.
She should be at the front altar,
along with other family members.
Unless...
Unless?
She died as an unmarried woman.
For all I know,
the prayer sticks on Mei Hwa's altar
must keep burning,
and the one who lights them
must be a Tio family member.
Otherwise, someone will get sick.
The nosebleed I had yesterday
is the same
as the one that Engkim wrote about there.
So, you have to live here?
And then when we have children,
when we get married, you...
Honey.
I understand if you...
if you can't take it,
- it's okay.
- Salim.
Salim.
We're in this together.
Yes.
Okay?
Thank you, honey.
You don't have to worry.
What you experienced was maybe because
the prayer sticks were out.
Nobody lit them when Engkim died.
Right?
Yes.
Tomorrow, let's pray at Mei Hwa's grave.
Hopefully,
her spirit will find peace.
- Yes.
- Okay?
Tell me if it hurts, Tasya.
Tasya.
I understand.
What you experienced was so creepy.
So...
should we put this off?
We can wait until you're feeling better,
and then we can...
start everything all over again, and...
No.
It's okay.
My mood will improve soon.
Are you sure?
Is everything ready?
Let's go.
Be careful.
Be careful, Tasya.
Come here.
Okay.
- Let's go.
I'll head to the front yard.
- Okay.
Let me do it.
Okay.
- All good?
- Yes.
Where did you get this?
It's a secret.
Let me put it on you.
Is it pretty?
Gorgeous.
- Thank you, Arin.
- You're welcome.
- Sorry.
- Make it flat.
Don't smile?
I want to make it this classic,
but I use film.
- Now, I want you...
- You want left or right?
- Left. You know that's my good side.
- Sorry, excuse me.
This part of your face is so greasy.
For this one, you can smile.
Should we show our teeth or not?
Bud.
Do you want me to make
your photos like this?
Vintage style.
I wasn't aware of this picture before.
This is good.
Okay. I'll do it.
I'm taking behind-the-scenes pictures.
Now I'm using film.
Look at me.
Nice. Lower your chin, Tasya.
One, two...
Okay, now Salim,
show more affection towards Tasya.
One, two.
Okay. One more. Chin, down.
Relax, one, two.
Okay, one, two.
Eyes on me. One, two.
One, two, this way.
More love. One, two.
Tasya, relax.
One, two.
Let go of my father.
One more time. One, two.
Okay.
Hang on.
- Tasya!
- Honey!
- Honey.
- Tasya.
- Wake up, Tasya.
- Honey.
Are you sure you're not going to
take her to the hospital?
Tasya doesn't want that.
She says she just needs some rest.
As long as she's fine.
I need to go to the restroom.
Have you printed them?
Bro.
This picture, bro.
What's wrong?
- I'm going back to Jakarta.
- You can't.
- You have to stay here, Harja.
- I can't, Arin.
- Yes, but Tasya just fainted.
- I don't care.
- This is driving me crazy, Arin.
- You can't leave, Harja.
Your work is not done here.
- I see ghosts here.
- Yes, I know, but you need to calm down.
I can't stay here any longer.
Yes, but you have to listen to me first.
We're here to help Tasya and Salim.
- How could you leave...
- I don't want to help him.
- I want to go back to Jakarta.
- Yes.
There is a ghost
in Salim and Tasya's picture.
Yes, Harja. Calm down.
Tasya just fainted.
I don't care about Tasya.
Honey.
Be careful.
Be careful, Tasya.
Tasya.
What's this?
What is this?
I don't know.
Salim.
Mei Hwa.
It's weird, bud.
There's been a body buried behind the wall
for years and you don't know about it?
Sorry, Febri. Hang on.
Then who was buried
at the back of the house?
I don't know.
All I know
is that I have to light the prayer sticks
on Mei Hwa's altar or I'll get sick.
That's it.
That's all I know.
Tomorrow, we'll give Mei Hwa
a proper burial,
and then we'll finish the photoshoot.
What?
Salim, you're crazy. No way.
We're going home tonight.
Harja, calm down.
I'm here to work,
not to bury a body.
You're right, Harja.
This is mine and Salim's problem,
not yours.
No, Tasya. I'll help you.
Even if it means burying a body,
I'll definitely help you.
Okay, okay, let's bury the body now.
- Come on.
- Not now.
Burying the body at night
will only bring us more bad luck.
- Let's just do it tomorrow.
- You're all unbelievable!
Damn it.
Harja.
Tasya.
I'm going to get something to drink.
Do you want anything?
Okay.
Hey, Harja.
Where are you going? You're going
to leave in the middle of a job?
My job doesn't include
burying a dead body.
Yes, I know. But your job here
is not done yet.
They should've taken care of it
before we started working.
Besides, why don't you want
to come home with me?
- I feel bad for Tasya.
- Again, Tasya.
Tasya is going to marry someone else.
Are you nuts?
Harja.
Ugh!
Damn! Tasya?
Tasya.
Watch it.
Honey.
Be careful, Salim.
Tasya?
Tasya.
Tasya, why are you smiling like that?
You're scaring me.
Tasya.
Sir.
Excuse me.
Is Koh Chung Chung here?
There's a strong energy out there.
Grief.
Sadness.
But you can help my friend, right?
The things that are happening to Salim are
unlike anything I've heard about before.
But based on your story
and...
my knowledge about that house,
there's only one thing we can do.
It was done here in the past,
but...
I myself have never done it.
You'll help me, right?
Yes.
Tasya.
Let's leave.
Tonight.
Come with me, Tasya.
Leave Salim.
Are you drunk?
No.
I'm not drunk.
I'm a hundred percent sober.
I fully realize now
that I've made a huge mistake.
And now I'm going to do what you said
I should have done yesterday.
I'm going to make a move.
I want you to be with me.
I want to be with Salim.
Tasya, open your eyes. Look around you!
Do you really want to live with a man
with this kind of family background?
Think, Tasya.
Why did Salim move
the photoshoot location to this place?
And he didn't tell you
about his family history. Why?
He wants to harm us and he doesn't
want us to get out of this place.
- Open your eyes, Tasya!
- Febri.
Febri, stop.
I don't care.
Whatever you think about Salim,
I love him so much.
And if he has to die
because of this matter...
I want to die with him.
Sorry. I may be wrong.
Maybe it's just in my head.
But what I feel here, Tasya,
I can't hold it in anymore.
I no longer have the power to lie.
I love you.
You can never take his place in my heart.
Salim.
I'm sorry.
You shouldn't have to go through this.
It's my fault.
What do you mean?
As long as we're not married,
you are not tied to me,
nor to my family.
So if you want to leave now,
nothing will happen to you.
- Salim.
- Tasya, please listen to me.
I don't want you to live a miserable life
because of me.
I love you so much.
And you deserve to be happy.
To travel the world
and get everything that you think
you will get from me.
So you'd better listen to Febri.
- Go with him.
- No, Salim.
- Go with him now.
- Salim, stop.
Don't...
Don't you ever doubt my love for you.
To get everything, you said?
You're so naive
if you think I can live a day without you.
Do you think I want to see you die?
Do you really think so?
- Salim, answer me.
- Tasya.
One more week, honey.
Are you ready?
Here...
I have a gift
for you.
It's not something fancy,
but I made it myself.
This butterfly
is a symbol of my hope for you.
I hope that you'll soar into the sky.
Thank you, honey.
Let's soar together.
Come here.
Let me put it on you.
It's beautiful.
- Run!
- Dad!
Hurry!
Wait!
Come on.
Where should we go?
- Look down!
- Mom!
Shut up!
Oh God...
It's hard to hide while walking like this.
What should we do?
- Let's go.
- Oh God.
- Get in here.
- Let's get in here.
Come inside.
- Bhanu.
- Shut up.
Come on!
Get on your knees!
Freedom or death!
Get down!
Freedom!
Mei Hwa!
Mom.
Mom...
Tasya.
What are you doing?
Salim.
It's okay.
- Salim.
- It's okay, honey.
I'm here.
I'm sorry.
Mei Hwa, Salim.
Mei Hwa killed herself, Salim.
She died following Bhanu.
She stabbed her own neck, Salim.
So, Mei Hwa killed herself.
You were singing Mei Hwa's song, honey.
Do you know what it means?
Butterfly
Wailing and moaning
Wherever my moon has gone
Let my wings
Flap strong
And reach your side again
Mei Hwa.
It's okay, honey.
I'm here.
I'm sorry.
She sang that song
before she finally stabbed her own neck.
And from that moment,
I was so sad
that I...
But why did you sing that song?
One thing's for sure.
Now that I know the meaning of the song,
I know that what Mei Hwa wanted
was to marry her fiancé,
Bhanu.
We have buried the body,
and yet another problem has arisen.
What scheme are you playing now, Salim?
Tasya!
Tasya, I know who can help us.
Who is it, Arin?
Just trust me.
Salim.
Is there really a ritual
to marry two spirits?
Yes.
And Arin and I have prepared
everything we need for that ritual.
So, a spirit wedding ceremony
can be done in two ways.
Marrying one spirit to another spirit,
lovers who have died,
or marrying one spirit with a human
who is still alive.
That's nuts.
Who would want to do it?
I know some who would.
Many people did it in that era because
the son-in-law or daughter-in-law
would inherit their parents' fortune.
After that, they could marry
another person.
Koh Chung Chung.
What do we have to do now?
Help me.
Koh.
We put it here.
This one.
Yes.
All set.
All rise.
Wait.
Wait a minute.
Do it again.
What's wrong?
I can't find Bhanu's spirit.
What should we do?
We have to find Bhanu's body.
The Japanese threw away Bhanu's body.
We don't know where it is.
God.
No wonder.
The body didn't get a proper burial
and nobody ever prayed for him.
What should we do now?
We have to find something
that belonged to Bhanu.
How about
their wedding ring?
Yes.
If that's the case,
there's only one way to do it.
But it is the most dangerous way and...
it has to succeed.
One of you has to bring Bhanu here
from the hereafter.
- Hereafter?
- The rest of you will have a task to do.
- But...
- I'll bring Bhanu here.
No.
Tasya.
I'll go.
I'm Mei Hwa's family.
I can look for Bhanu.
- Come on, tell me how.
- Tasya.
Tasya, it's starting to feel creepy.
- I'll do it.
- No, let me do it.
Hang on.
Do you even know what Bhanu looks like?
If you go and look for him,
will you recognize him?
But it's dangerous, Tasya.
The hereafter. What the hell?
I'm sorry, but I think Tasya is
the right person for this task.
Sorry, Salim.
If you go there,
your ancestors may take you away.
- That's fine.
- You won't be able to come back.
No.
Salim.
Are you sure?
This is not a game, Tasya.
- What if you don't come back?
- Salim.
What should I do?
Trust me.
I'm sure, Salim,
that Mei Hwa will help me.
This is what she wants, Salim.
Okay?
What are the other tasks?
Arin,
stay here
and light the prayer sticks while praying.
You can use your own words to pray.
Ask permission from Salim's ancestors
and pray
that their souls find peace
and that they will watch over us.
Salim, Febri,
go to Mei Hwa's grave
and dig up her body.
Be careful. Bring the body back here.
Make sure you bring
their wedding rings as well.
The wedding rings are immensely important.
Don't forget that.
Tasya,
you're going to the hereafter.
Call Bhanu.
Although he can't see you,
in the hereafter,
he will be able to hear you.
He can come close to you.
When you meet Bhanu,
hold his hand
and then burn this paper
with this mantra on it...
using this match.
Okay?
Thank you for helping.
I'm doing this for Tasya.
I know.
I heard everything you said to Tasya.
You really are an ass.
Stay out of our lives from now on.
You got that?
In the hereafter,
you'll be safe.
Just do one thing.
When someone calls your name,
ignore them.
Don't go closer to them,
whoever they are.
Now relax,
close your eyes,
exhale,
and slowly lie down.
Koh Chung Chung.
Tasya.
- Tasya.
Bhanu!
Febri, where's Salim? Febri, damn it!
What's wrong with you?
You...
You leave this place now.
I'm taking Tasya with me too.
But Salim is still at the cemetery.
Don't worry about Salim.
He left us.
- What do you mean?
- He doesn't care about us.
Febri, I don't believe you.
Salim.
Damn it.
Salim, wake up.
Salim!
Damn it.
- Bhanu!
- Tasya.
- Where are you, Bhanu?
- Mei Hwa is looking for you, Bhanu.
- Tasya.
Tasya.
Salim?
Honey.
Honey, don't leave me here alone.
Tasya!
Tasya.
- Bhanu.
- Tasya.
I'm taking Tasya home.
You can't do that.
Tasya.
Tasya, wake up.
Tasya, it's not safe here.
Come one. Let's go home with me, Tasya.
Tasya, wake up.
Tasya, let's go home.
We're going home, Tasya.
Damn it.
Honey.
Honey, wake up.
Wake up.
Bhanu.
Koh Chung Chung.
Koh.
Salim.
Honey.
Are you okay?
Come on, help me.
Salim, what are you doing?
I'm going to marry Mei Hwa
and then go home.
Why are you marrying her to Febri?
Isn't this what she wants?
To get married?
No, Salim.
Not like this. She wants to marry
Bhanu's spirit, not Febri.
Tasya, listen.
Don't you remember
what Koh Chung Chung said?
This is not right, Salim.
Mei Hwa wants to marry Bhanu's spirit,
not just any man.
And I've found Bhanu's spirit.
I've met him, Salim.
Okay.
How
do we marry them?
Koh Chung Chung is dead.
I'm trying to use
Koh Chung Chung's way here.
I'm not sure it's going to work,
but I'm going to try it anyway.
So, please...
help me.
No, Salim.
Not like this, Salim.
Do you want me to stay here all my life
burning prayer sticks
and pass the ritual to our child?
Is that what you want?
Damn it.
Febri.
You're a dead meat.
Just go and join your ancestors.
Stop!
That's enough,
stop this.
Tasya.
But thank you.
I want my ring back.
Tasya.
Tasya!
Febri, where's Tasya?
Febri.